---
layout: post
title: La sélection de décembre 
category: Blog
tags:
  - Links
  - Selec
published: true
comments: true
---

h2. Coding styles

So real...

"'Yoda Conditions', 'Pokémon Exception Handling' and other programming classics":http://www.dodgycoder.net/2011/11/yoda-conditions-pokemon-exception.html


h2. Web design

"Twitter bootstrap":http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/

<blockquote><p>Bootstrap is a toolkit from Twitter designed to kickstart development of webapps and sites. It includes base CSS and HTML for typography, forms, buttons, tables, grids, navigation, and more.</p>
<small>Twitter bootstrap</small></blockquote>


h2. Event, CQRS, high-scalability

"DataSift Architecture: Realtime Datamining At 120,000 Tweets Per Second":http://highscalability.com/blog/2011/11/29/datasift-architecture-realtime-datamining-at-120000-tweets-p.html

"Using Gossip Protocols For Failure Detection, Monitoring, Messaging And Other Good Things":http://highscalability.com/blog/2011/11/14/using-gossip-protocols-for-failure-detection-monitoring-mess.html

"Kafka (Xebia-fr)":http://blog.xebia.fr/2011/12/02/kafka/

"Building an Event-Sourced Web Application - Part 1: Domain Model, Events and State":http://krasserm.blogspot.com/2011/11/building-event-sourced-web-application.html

"Understanding the differences between AMQP & JMS":http://www.wmrichards.com/amqp.pdf

"Complex Event Processing":http://blog.octo.com/en/complex-event-processing/

"CQRS, l’architecture aux deux visages (partie 1)":http://blog.octo.com/cqrs-larchitecture-aux-deux-visages-partie-1/

h2. DDD

"Effective Aggregate Design by Vaughn Vernon":http://dddcommunity.org/library/vernon_2011
"Effective Aggregate Design by Vaughn Vernon - Part 1":http://dddcommunity.org/sites/default/files/pdf_articles/Vernon_2011_1.pdf
"Effective Aggregate Design by Vaughn Vernon - Part 2":http://dddcommunity.org/sites/default/files/pdf_articles/Vernon_2011_2.pdf

h2. "Test-Driven Development: un pacte diabolique ?":http://www.cftl.de/index.php?id=78
Traduction de _Test-Driven Development A Faustian Bargain_

Ou comment faire l'amalgame entre un outil de travail et un process de développement. Le _TDD_ n'est pas une méthode de gestion de projet et encore moins une méthode pour diriger ou concevoir un projet de bout en bout. Le _TDD_ est un outil, parmis d'autre, pour la phase d'implémentation et ne se substitue pas à des phases de design, d'analyse et de conception plus globale de l'application. 

"Réaction @nmartignole":http://twitter.com/#!/nmartignole/status/142497996641280000
"Réaction @BodySplash":http://twitter.com/#!/BodySplash/status/142250558286340096
