---
layout: post
title: "Javascript Libraries"
category: Blog
tags:
  - javascript
published: true
comments: true
---

Javascript Libraries that would require some attention:

<notextile><style>
.col {
	float: left;
	width: 18em;
	padding: 0.5em;
	border-radius: 6px;
	border-color: #EFEFEF;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-style: solid;
	margin: 0.5em;
	box-shadow: 4px 4px 3px #aaa;
}
.clear {
	clear: both;
}
</style></notextile>


<div class="col">

h2. "Backbone.js":http://documentcloud.github.com/backbone/

<blockquote><p>Backbone supplies structure to JavaScript-heavy applications by providing models with key-value binding and custom events, collections with a rich API of enumerable functions, views with declarative event handling, and connects it all to your existing application over a RESTful JSON interface.</p><small>"Backbone.js":http://documentcloud.github.com/backbone/</small></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="col">
h2. "Modernizr":http://www.modernizr.com/

<blockquote><p>Modernizr is a small JavaScript library that detects the availability of native implementations for next-generation web technologies, i.e. features that stem from the HTML5 and CSS3 specifications.</p><small>"Modernizr":http://www.modernizr.com/docs/</small></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="clear"/>

<div class="col">
h2. "underscore.js":http://documentcloud.github.com/underscore/

<blockquote><p>Underscore is a utility-belt library for JavaScript that provides a lot of the functional programming support...</p><small>"underscore.js":http://documentcloud.github.com/underscore/</small></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="col">
h2. "Require.js":http://requirejs.org/

<blockquote><p>RequireJS is a JavaScript file and module loader.</p><small>"Require.js":http://requirejs.org/</small></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="clear"/>

<div class="col">
h2. "EMBER.JS":http://emberjs.com/

<blockquote><p>Ember is a JavaScript framework for creating ambitious web applications by eliminating boilerplate and providing a standard application architecture.</p><small>"EMBER.JS":http://emberjs.com/</small></blockquote>
</div>


<div class="col">
h2. "{less}":http://lesscss.org/

<blockquote><p>The dynamic stylesheet language.
LESS extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variables, mixins, operations and functions. </p><small>"{less}":http://lesscss.org/</small></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="clear"/>

<div class="col">
h2. "Bootstrap - Twitter":http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/

<blockquote><p>Bootstrap is a toolkit from Twitter designed to kickstart development of webapps and sites.
It includes base CSS and HTML for typography, forms, buttons, tables, grids, navigation, and more.</p><small>"Bootstrap":http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/</small></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="col">
h2. "D3.js":http://mbostock.github.com/d3/

<blockquote><p>Data-Driven Documents.
D3.js is a small, free JavaScript library for manipulating documents based on data.</p><small>"D3.js":http://mbostock.github.com/d3/</small></blockquote>
</div>

<div class="clear"/>

"Building a single page app with Backbone.js, underscore.js and jQuery":http://andyet.net/blog/2010/oct/29/building-a-single-page-app-with-backbonejs-undersc/
